Beginner Level
  What is the Single Responsibility Principle (SRP)?
  Answer: SRP states that a class should have only one reason to change, meaning it should have only one job or responsibility. A class should not be responsible for multiple unrelated functionalities. For example, in a banking system, a class should either handle transactions or logging, not both.
  
  What is the Open/Closed Principle (OCP)?
  Answer: OCP states that software entities (classes, modules, functions, etc.) should be open for extension but closed for modification. This means you should be able to add new functionality to an existing class without changing its existing code. For example, adding new shapes to a drawing application can be done by extending a base class without modifying existing shapes.
  
  What is the Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP)?
  Answer: LSP suggests that objects of a superclass should be replaceable with objects of its subclasses without affecting the correctness of the program. For example, if you have a class Bird and a subclass Penguin, the subclass should not violate any behavior of the superclass. In this case, if a Bird class has a fly() method, the Penguin subclass should not override it to break its behavior.
  
  Can you explain the Interface Segregation Principle (ISP)?
  Answer: ISP states that no client should be forced to depend on methods it does not use. It's better to have several smaller, more specific interfaces than a large one. For example, if you have an interface Machine with methods print(), scan(), and fax(), you could split this into separate interfaces like Printer, Scanner, and FaxMachine so that clients only implement what they need.
  
  What is the Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP)?
  Answer: DIP states that high-level modules should not depend on low-level modules; both should depend on abstractions. It also says that abstractions should not depend on details, but details should depend on abstractions. In a service that sends notifications, instead of the service depending on a EmailSender class directly, it should depend on an interface NotificationSender and have an implementation for email or SMS.
  
  Can you provide a simple example of each SOLID principle in code?
  Answer: Yes, for each principle, you'd create a small class hierarchy or example, like showing a Shape class for OCP, an Animal class for LSP, and using interfaces for ISP and DIP.
  
  Why is it important to follow SOLID principles in object-oriented design?
  Answer: SOLID principles promote maintainable, flexible, and scalable code. They make the codebase easier to extend, test, and understand. It leads to fewer bugs, reduced complexity, and better code quality.

Intermediate Level
  How does the Open/Closed Principle contribute to the maintainability of code?
  Answer: OCP contributes to maintainability by allowing new features to be added without changing the existing code, reducing the chance of introducing bugs. It also ensures that the existing code remains stable while new functionality is introduced.
  
  Can you demonstrate a situation where the Liskov Substitution Principle is violated?
  Answer: Consider a class Rectangle with methods to set width and height. Now, if you create a subclass Square and override the setWidth() and setHeight() methods, setting one dimension affects the other. This violates LSP as the Square class doesn't behave as a Rectangle.
  
  How does the Interface Segregation Principle differ from the Dependency Inversion Principle?
  Answer: ISP focuses on having smaller, more specific interfaces so that clients only depend on the methods they use, whereas DIP is about decoupling high-level modules from low-level modules by depending on abstractions.
  
  Can you explain how to apply Dependency Injection to follow the Dependency Inversion Principle?
  Answer: Dependency Injection (DI) allows you to inject dependencies into a class rather than having it create them. In Spring Boot, you can use the @Autowired annotation or constructor injection to inject an interface, which is then implemented by a class, following DIP.
  
  In a case where a class is trying to do too many things, how would you refactor it to adhere to the Single Responsibility Principle?
  Answer: You would break the class into multiple smaller classes, each focusing on one responsibility. For instance, if a class handles both user authentication and logging, split them into separate AuthenticationService and LoggingService.
  
  What’s the difference between an abstract class and an interface? How do they relate to the SOLID principles?
  Answer: An abstract class can have both abstract and concrete methods, while an interface only contains abstract methods. Both are used to achieve abstraction, but interfaces are more suitable for defining contract-based behavior (ISP and DIP), while abstract classes are used for code reuse and shared behavior (OCP and LSP).
  
  When would it be appropriate to violate the SOLID principles?
  Answer: SOLID principles can be violated in cases of extreme performance needs, simplicity for small applications, or when the cost of refactoring legacy code is too high. However, this should be done cautiously, and only when the violation doesn't negatively affect maintainability or scalability.

Advanced Level
  How do SOLID principles relate to the design patterns you use?
  Answer: Many design patterns like Strategy, Factory, and Observer are based on SOLID principles. For example, the Strategy Pattern promotes OCP and ISP by allowing the behavior of an object to be changed at runtime without modifying the object.
  
  What challenges might arise when trying to follow the SOLID principles in a legacy system?
  Answer: Legacy systems might have tightly coupled components, large classes, and lack of abstractions. Refactoring them to follow SOLID could be challenging due to the need for significant changes, potential risk of breaking functionality, and time constraints.
  
  Explain the trade-offs between following SOLID principles and achieving performance optimization.
  Answer: Adhering to SOLID principles might introduce additional layers of abstraction, which could result in minor performance overhead. In performance-critical applications, these trade-offs need to be evaluated, but the benefits of maintainability and flexibility generally outweigh the performance cost.
  
  How do SOLID principles influence test-driven development (TDD)?
  Answer: SOLID principles make it easier to write unit tests as they promote modular, isolated classes with clear responsibilities. TDD can be more effective with SOLID principles because they ensure that classes are simple, focused, and easy to mock and test.
  
  How would you apply SOLID principles in a microservices architecture?
  Answer: In microservices, each service can follow SOLID principles by focusing on a single responsibility, being open for extension (via new features), and depending on abstractions for communication. This keeps services loosely coupled, easy to test, and easy to scale.
  
  What are the potential pitfalls of following SOLID principles too strictly?
  Answer: Over-engineering, unnecessary complexity, and over-abstraction are some of the pitfalls of applying SOLID too rigidly. In simple applications, SOLID might introduce more overhead than necessary.
  
  Can you explain how SOLID principles can be applied to achieve separation of concerns in a large system with multiple teams working on different components?
  Answer: SOLID principles help achieve separation of concerns by defining clear responsibilities for each module, allowing different teams to work on isolated components. Principles like OCP and DIP help reduce dependencies between components, making parallel development easier.
  
  How does the Dependency Inversion Principle relate to the inversion of control (IoC) principle in frameworks like Spring or Java EE?
  Answer: IoC is a technique used in frameworks like Spring to achieve DIP. It allows high-level modules to depend on abstractions rather than concrete implementations, with the framework managing object creation and injection.
  
  How would you design an application that’s both flexible and scalable while adhering to all SOLID principles?
  Answer: A flexible and scalable application would have clear abstractions, well-defined responsibilities for each class, and modules that can be easily extended. Applying SOLID principles ensures that adding features won't disrupt existing functionality and that components are loosely coupled.
  
  What are some anti-patterns that arise when SOLID principles are not followed?
  Answer: Some anti-patterns include God Object, where a class does too much; Spaghetti Code, where there’s tight coupling and no clear structure; and Circular Dependencies, which occur when modules depend on each other in a loop.

Expert Level
  Can you refactor a tightly coupled code example into one that adheres to SOLID principles, and explain your approach step-by-step?
  Answer: Tightly coupled code typically has high dependencies between classes. Here’s an example:
  
  class PaymentService {
      public void processPayment(CreditCardPayment payment) {
          // process the payment
      }
  }
  
  class CreditCardPayment {
      public void charge() {
          // charge the payment
      }
  }
  
  Refactor:
  Apply DIP: Instead of directly using CreditCardPayment, we create an abstraction, PaymentMethod, and inject it into the PaymentService.
  Apply OCP: Allow adding new payment types without changing the existing PaymentService.
  
  Refactored code:
  
  interface PaymentMethod {
      void charge();
  }
  
  class CreditCardPayment implements PaymentMethod {
      @Override
      public void charge() {
          // charge the payment
      }
  }
  
  class PayPalPayment implements PaymentMethod {
      @Override
      public void charge() {
          // charge via PayPal
      }
  }
  
  class PaymentService {
      private PaymentMethod paymentMethod;
  
      public PaymentService(PaymentMethod paymentMethod) {
          this.paymentMethod = paymentMethod;
      }
  
      public void processPayment() {
          paymentMethod.charge();
      }
  }
  This adheres to DIP, OCP, and SRP, making it easy to extend without modifying existing classes.
  
  How do SOLID principles help in reducing technical debt in a project?
  Answer: SOLID principles help in reducing technical debt by promoting:
  Modularity: Encouraging small, focused classes (SRP) that are easier to maintain.
  Extensibility: Facilitating new features without changing existing code (OCP), which avoids rework.
  Testability: Enabling isolated testing of components (LSP, ISP, DIP) that leads to fewer bugs and easier debugging.
  Loose coupling: Ensuring components are loosely coupled, reducing dependencies and making code easier to modify and maintain.
  
  How would you apply SOLID principles when designing an API, especially in terms of versioning and extension?
  Answer: When designing an API:
  OCP: Make sure that the API can be extended without modifying existing versions. For instance, use versioning in the API path (/v1/, /v2/) and provide backward-compatible methods.
  ISP: Create separate interfaces for different clients so that each client only has to implement what they need. For example, an API for both mobile and desktop clients may have different methods for each.
  DIP: Depend on abstractions rather than concrete implementations. Use interface-based design for flexibility and decoupling.
  LSP: Ensure that any subclass of a parent class or interface adheres to the same contract and does not break existing functionality.
  
  Can you give an example of using the Open/Closed Principle in a system that’s frequently updated with new business requirements?
  Answer: Consider a payment gateway that supports multiple payment types. As new payment methods are introduced (e.g., crypto payments), you don't want to modify the existing payment processing logic.
  
  OCP allows you to add new payment methods by creating new classes that implement a common interface, like PaymentMethod, without touching the core PaymentProcessor class. This keeps the system stable and easy to extend.
  Example:
  
  interface PaymentMethod {
      void processPayment();
  }
  
  class CreditCardPayment implements PaymentMethod {
      public void processPayment() {
          // process credit card payment
      }
  }
  
  class CryptoPayment implements PaymentMethod {
      public void processPayment() {
          // process cryptocurrency payment
      }
  }
  
  class PaymentProcessor {
      public void process(PaymentMethod paymentMethod) {
          paymentMethod.processPayment();
      }
  }
  Here, adding a new payment method doesn't require modifying existing code, ensuring the system is closed for modification but open for extension.
  
  How do SOLID principles work together to facilitate Agile software development?
  Answer: SOLID principles are a perfect fit for Agile development, where iterative improvements are made. SOLID:
  Promotes modularity: With SRP and OCP, you can change and extend parts of the system without impacting others.
  Encourages extensibility: With OCP and DIP, you can add new features without breaking existing functionality, which aligns with the Agile principle of incremental delivery.
  Supports rapid development: Adhering to LSP and ISP makes testing and debugging easier, reducing time spent on fixing bugs.
  Facilitates maintainability: By following SOLID, the system stays clean and maintainable as it grows and changes.
  
  What are the potential pitfalls of following SOLID principles too strictly?
  Answer: Some potential pitfalls include:
  Over-engineering: Applying SOLID principles too strictly can result in unnecessary abstractions and added complexity for simple problems, making the code harder to understand.
  Premature optimization: Implementing every SOLID principle in early stages of a project can slow down development, especially if the features aren't fully defined.
  Increased boilerplate: When designing systems to strictly follow these principles, you might end up with more interfaces, classes, and code, making it harder to manage for small projects.
  
  Can you explain how SOLID principles can be applied to achieve separation of concerns in a large system with multiple teams working on different components?
  Answer: SOLID principles facilitate separation of concerns by:
  SRP: Each class/module has one responsibility, making it easier for different teams to work on different modules independently.
  OCP: New features can be added without changing existing code, reducing the need for coordination between teams.
  ISP: Specific interfaces for different teams’ needs reduce the complexity of the system and avoid unnecessary dependencies.
  DIP: Teams can depend on abstractions, meaning they can focus on their own implementations without worrying about the internals of other teams’ components.
  By adhering to SOLID, each team can work on a separate module with well-defined responsibilities, making the overall system easier to maintain, extend, and scale.
  
  How does the Dependency Inversion Principle relate to the inversion of control (IoC) principle in frameworks like Spring or Java EE?
  Answer: IoC is a design principle where the control of object creation and dependency management is inverted. In frameworks like Spring or Java EE, IoC containers manage the creation of objects and inject their dependencies.
  DIP states that high-level modules should depend on abstractions, not on concrete implementations, and IoC achieves this by providing abstractions and injecting concrete dependencies at runtime. For example, in Spring, you define interfaces for your services and let the framework inject the concrete implementations.
  
  How would you design an application that’s both flexible and scalable while adhering to all SOLID principles?
  Answer: To design a flexible and scalable application:
  Use SRP to ensure classes are small and focused on a single responsibility.
  Ensure the code is open for extension and closed for modification (OCP) by defining interfaces and abstract classes, and using inheritance or composition for extending functionality.
  Use LSP by ensuring that subclasses can be used interchangeably with their parent classes without breaking behavior.
  Apply ISP to avoid forcing classes to implement unnecessary methods, allowing flexibility and reducing unnecessary dependencies.
  Use DIP to decouple the high-level modules from low-level ones, ensuring that the application can easily scale by replacing implementations without affecting high-level business logic.
  
  What are some anti-patterns that arise when SOLID principles are not followed?
  Answer: Some common anti-patterns include:
  God Object: A single class that does too many things, violating SRP.
  Spaghetti Code: Unstructured code that is difficult to maintain, usually due to tight coupling and lack of abstraction (violates OCP, DIP).
  Circular Dependencies: Classes that depend on each other in a circular way, violating DIP and making the system hard to scale and test.
  Primitive Obsession: Using primitive types (like int, String) instead of creating classes to represent domain concepts, making the code harder to extend and maintain (violates OCP and SRP).
